So to make sure that the computer can actually finished that game and guess the right number.
We need to check what the computer guessed and then kind of end the game.
If it's the number we entered for Dad we can use a number react hook and that's to use a fact hook use
effect allows you to run side effects or in general allows you to run logic after every renderer cycle.
And just as mentioned before if this whole react hoax thing is relatively new for you definitely check
out some dedicated react hoax resources or dive into my react complete guide course where I cover hooks
in detail so what I'll do with you is effect now as I'll call it here.
After initializing my state and my ref here and in there we've has a function I use effect fact takes
a function and dysfunction by default runs after every render cycle for this component so every time
it has been rendered dysfunctional executed after it has been rendered that's all is important.
Not before not simultaneously after.
Now in there I want to check if the current guest computer made is equal to the user choice because
that means the game is over.
Now that can't be the case for the first render cycle of course because we exclude the user choice from
the Gasol numbers but from the second roll on.
So once we clicked lower or greater for the first time that can happen.
So in there I didn't want you kind of fire.
The game is over message and send it to app J.S. so that we can swap the game screen for a game over
a screen.
Now we don't have that screen yet so let's add it.
Let's add a game over screen here in the screens folder and let's create a very simple one for now we'll
find unit later in there.
I'll simply have a view and a text and a style sheet.
So what we typically import from React Native then have the game over screen component in there which
take some props and then return some J as X in the end.
Here we have these styles with style sheet create and then we export the game over screen as a default.
Now in there as a set I want to keep this symbol for now I'll just have a view in there with a text
of the game is over and will output more details there later for now.
Here I'll just assign some style my screen style which I'll add to this object we passed to the style
sheet.
Here at the bottom set flex to 1 and maybe justify content to center and then align items to centers
so that this text is centered for the moment.
Now we have to game over screen and we want to render this instead of the game screen.
Well if the game is over so let's go back to the app J.S. file and import the game over a screen from
the screens folder and there from game over screen.
And the question now of course is what's our condition for rendering this well in the end we'll need
one additional piece of information anyways.
And that's the number of rounds it took to computer to finish the game.
So one thing I want to store here in the app component is a no state.
I manage and that is the number of rounds it took two fewer to finish which is sero initially because
we haven't started the game yet.
And I'll name this guess rounds and set guess rounds and you can name is whatever you want.
Now the goal is to set this when the game is over.
So for Dad I'll also add another function here to the app component.
Game over handler and there I want to get my number of rounds as are arguments so I expect to get this
here so that I can call set guess rounds to my number of Rollins.
I got here noted game over handler should be triggered from inside the game screen obviously.
So here on the game screen I want to pass on a prop which I'll name on Game over.
Sounds like a fitting name which can be called from inside the game screen then or which holds a function
reference which can then be called from inside the game screen and the function reference is a reference
at this game over a handler function of course.
So inside of game screen we can now use the ON GAME OVER prop to execute this function and pass the
number of rounds it took the computer to guess our number.
Then we set this number of rounds here stored in our guess rounds state and now in the app component.
We know that if guests rounds is sero the game hasn't started yet or it's running if it's greater than
0 then the game over a handler executed.
And the game is over.
So we want to show the game over screen.
If guess rounds is greater than zero.
By the way if we start a new game I also want to reset my guess rounds to zero because of a new game
starts.
We want to reset the number of rounds the computer took to 0.
So if it's greater than zero the game is over.
So in that case I want to show the game over screen.
So here if I check if we have a user number in which case I showed a game screen that's only correct
if guess rounds is smaller or equal than zero.
Smaller is not possible but still we can check for that.
So if that's the case then we know the game is certainly running.
Else if gas rounds is greater than zero then we know the game is over and therefore content will be
equal to game over a screen right now.
That's just a component like this without any props which we pass in.
So now we have a condition where we render the game over screen all we now need to do we need to use
the on game over Prop here in our game screen too in the end call this function and forward the number
of Rollins to the app component.
So back in the game screen if use effect here determines that the right choice was made the right guest
was made and therefore the game is over then and here I want to call props on game over as a function
and forward the amount of rounds it took the computer to guess our result or our choice and that stay
for a no state we have to manage here into game screen we have our rounds and set rounds and initially
that is sero when this component is created for the first time does of course zero and Rollins a stay.
For now whatever forward here because that's a no will increment with every guess because in the next
guess handler if we're generating a next guess besides setting that guess here in our state I of course
also want to set my rounds and they're used to function him where I get my current rounds and a return.
Rounds plus one.
So I add one to my current amount of rounds I've stored in my state so that the new state well is old
rounds plus one because a new round started so if dad were managing the amount of rounds that we're
using this as a condition in the app component to render the game over screen and then the game screen
we check whoever the game is over here and use effect and right now we do it as whenever this component
renders.
Now we could do that but we can also simply be more honest or more direct regarding the dependencies
of this effect and that's something you can be or you can do by adding a second argument to use effect
first argument is to function it should execute after rendering the component second argument you past
you use effect is an array of dependencies of this function.
And here you have to specify any value that's coming from outside of this affect function.
So in our case that would be the current guess that would be props user choice and props on game over
and whenever such a value changes disaffected rerun.
So whenever a task changed after Rand recycled the effect will rerun I should say if I render cycle
occurred and the values you specified here are still the same.
As for the previous render cycle then the effect will not rerun.
So do fact will now only be run if one of our dependencies changed now as a set props user choice and
props on game over are all the dependencies and to take care of these all use a modern javascript syntax
where I use object D structuring to D structure my props and get user choice and on game over out of
them.
This syntax might look strange but it's like air raid restructuring just for objects we're pulling these
properties so these property names out of this props object and stored them in constants with equal
names so that here we can now just use user choice and just use on game over since we have these values
now stored in constants off that name pulled out of props and I'm doing this because now we can add
user choice and on game over as dependencies in this list.
Otherwise we would have to add props here and that actually changes whenever de parent component changes.
Therefore it's not a good check.
This is a better check because now we make sure is anything else and props changes.
We don't care only if one of these two values changes then disaffection rerun now with dead we have
our check in place that should hopefully lead to the game over screen being percent it if the computer
guessed our numbers so now let's save this and let's give it a try.
Maybe here on Android to mix things up so enter a number here 30 to confirm start a game and it's to
zone should be greater.
Let me also show you how the warning looks like when I'm on android.
This default Android alert so 30 to it was awesome.
So they offer of course should be greater should still be greater.
Now it should be lower should be lower should be greater should be lower should be lower should be greater
should be greater.
The game is over.
That's looking good to guess probably while certain to what makes sense regarding the sequence of numbers
we had here and therefore his output makes sense here.